Initial release notes for computed and substates (#1205)
bevyengine/bevy-website: release-content/0.14/release-notes/11426_Computed_State__Sub_States.md

Bevy's `States` are a simple but powerful abstraction for managing the control flow of your app.

```rust
use bevy_state::prelude::*;
use bevy_ecs::prelude::IntoSystemConfigs;
use bevy_ecs::system::ResMut;

#[derive(Clone, Copy, PartialEq, Eq, Hash, Debug, Default, States)]
enum GameState {
 #[default]
  Menu,
  InGame,
}

fn handle_escape_pressed(mut next_state: ResMut<NextState<GameState>>) {
    if escape_pressed {
        next_state.set(GameState::Menu);
    }
}

fn open_menu() {
    // Show the settings menu...
}

App::new()
    .init_state::<GameState>()

>     .add_systems(Update, handle_escape_pressed.run_if(in_state(GameState::Menu)));

Reviewer: Should this say `in_state(GameState::InGame)` or do I just not understand Bevy states?

Author: Yes, it should.

```

But as users' games (and non-game applications!) grew in complexity, their limitations became more apparent.
What happens if we want to capture the notion of "in a menu", but then have different states corresponding to which submenu should be open?
What if we want to ask questions like "is the game paused", but that question only makes sense while we're within a game?

Finding a good abstraction for this required [several](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/9957) [attempts](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/10088) and a great deal of both experimentation and discussion.

While your existing states code will work exactly as before, there are now two additional tools you can reach for if you're looking for more expressiveness: **computed states** and **sub states**.

```rust
/// Let's begin with our simple state above
#[derive(States, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, Hash, Debug, Default)]
enum GameState {
    #[default]
    Menu,
    // The addition of this field means that simply checking for `GameState::InGame` doesn't work:
    // the values are different based on its value and we may want to distinguish between game systems that run
    // when the game is paused or not!

>     InGame {

Reviewer 2: I think it's a little confusing to have this enum case share a name with our derived state example. Maybe we could rename this to `Running` or something?

            //"I don't care whether or not the game is paused" logic
            GameState::InGame {..} => Some(InGame),
            _ => None,
        }
    }
}

// By contrast, substates should be used when you want to be able to
// mutate a state that is derived from the values of another state.
#[derive(SubStates, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, Hash, Debug, Default)]
// This macro means that `GamePhase` will only exist when we're in the `InGame` computed state
// The intermediate computed state is helpful for clarity here, but isn't required:
// you can manually impl SubStates for even more control
#[source(InGame = InGame)]
enum GamePhase {
    #[default]
    Setup,
    Battle,
    Conclusion
}

// Initializing these is easy: just call the appropriate method on `App`
// and all of the required machinery will be set up for you.
App::new()
   .init_state::<GameState>()
   .add_computed_state::<InGame>()
   .add_substate::<GamePhase>()
```

Just like any other state, computed states and substates work with all of the tools you're used to:
the `State` and `NextState` resources, `OnEnter`, `OnExit` and `OnTransition` schedules and the `in_state` run condition.

> The only exception is that, for correctness reasons, computed states *cannot* be mutated manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The only exception is that, for correctness, computed states *cannot* be mutated through `NextState`.
```
Bit more direct?

Instead, they are strictly derived from their input states, and added, removed and updated automatically during state transitions based on the provided `compute` method.

> All of Bevy's state tools are now found in a dedicated `bevy_states` crate, which can be controlled via a feature flag.

Reviewer 3: Note about a breaking change here?
